{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1049{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern JetBrains Mono;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red204\green120\blue50;\red169\green183\blue198;\red255\green198\blue109;\red106\green135\blue89;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw0 \sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs20\lang9\par
\cf0 Description.\par
We have to write a program which automotized cinema's work. It have to a menu -\par
1. Show the seats\par
2. Buy a ticket\par
3. Statistics\par
0. Exit\par
If we choose "Show the seats" - program to show us the picture with already buyed seats and free seats.\par
If we choose "Buy a ticket" - we have to enter the numbers of row and seat, which we want a buy.\par
Item Buy a ticket shouldn't allow a user to buy a ticket that has already been purchased.\par
If a user chooses an already taken seat, print That ticket has already been purchased! and ask them to enter different seat coordinates until they pick an available seat. Of course, you shouldn't allow coordinates that are out of bounds. If this happens, print Wrong input! and ask to enter different seat coordinates until the user picks an available seat.\par
When the item Statistics is chosen, your program should print the following information:\par
The number of purchased tickets;\par
The number of purchased tickets represented as a percentage. Percentages should be rounded to 2 decimal places;\par
Current income;\par
The total income that shows how much money the theatre will get if all the tickets are sold.\par
\par
\cf1 package \cf0 cinema;\line\cf1\line import \cf0 org.w3c.dom.ls.LSOutput;\line\cf1\line import \cf0 java.text.DecimalFormat\cf1 ;\line import \cf0 java.util.ArrayList;\line\cf1 import \cf0 java.util.Scanner;\line\cf1\line public class \cf2 Cinema \{\line\line     \cf1 public static void \cf3 main\cf0 (String[] args)  \cf1 throws \cf0 IndexOutOfBoundsException \{\line\cf2\line         \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println\cf2 (\cf4 "Enter the number of rows:"\cf2 )\cf1 ;\line         \cf0 Scanner scanner = \cf1 new \cf0 Scanner(System.\i in\i0 );\cf1\line         int \cf0 a = scanner.nextInt();\cf1\line         \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println\cf2 (\cf4 "Enter the number of seats in each row:"\cf2 )\cf1 ;\line         int \cf0 b = scanner.nextInt();\cf1\line         \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println();\cf1\line         boolean \cf0 test = \cf1 true;\line         int \cf0 c = 0; \cf1 int \cf0 d = 0;\line\cf1         int \cf0 count = 0;\cf1\line         double \cf0 percentage = 0;\cf1\line         int \cf0 income = 0;\line\cf1         int \cf0 total = 0;\line\cf1\line\line         \cf0 String map[][] = \cf1 new \cf0 String[a][b];\cf1\line         \cf0 String mapTest[][] = \cf1 new \cf0 String[a][b];\cf5 //alternate variant. Not used here\line\line         \cf1 do \cf2\{  \cf5 //loop for always view menu, until we choise exit\line\line             \cf0 Cinema.\i printMenu\i0 ();\cf5 //PrintMenu method for UserMenu for choise to do\line\line             \cf1 int \cf0 e = scanner.nextInt();\cf1  \cf5 //condition for exit from program\line             \cf1 if \cf0 (e == 0) \{\line                 test = \cf1 false;\cf0\line             \}\line\cf2\line             \cf1 switch \cf0 (e) \{\line\cf2                 \cf1 case \cf0 1:   \cf5 //Show the seats. We draw it with free seats and bought seats\cf0\line\line                System.\i out\i0 .println();\line                System.\i out\i0 .println\cf2 (\cf4 "Cinema:"\cf2 )\cf1 ;\line                \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .print(" ");\cf1\line                for \cf0 (int i = 1; i<=b; i++) \{\line                System.\i out\i0 .print(" " + i);\line                \}\line                System.\i out\i0 .println();\line\cf1\line                try \cf2\{    \cf5 //maybe exception, and we catch it here\line                    \cf1 for \cf0 (int i = 0; i < a; i++) \{\line                        System.\i out\i0 .print(i+1);\line\cf1                        for \cf0 (int j = 0; j < b; j++) \{\line\cf2                            \cf1 if \cf0 (i == c-1 && j == d-1) \{\line                                map[i][j] = "B";\line                            \} \cf1 else \cf0\{\line\cf2                                \cf1 if \cf0 (map[i][j] != "B") \{\line                            map[i][j] = "S";\}\line\cf2                                \cf1 else \cf0 map[i][j] = "B";\line                            \}\line                            System.\i out\i0 .print(" " + map[i][j]);\line                        \}\line                        System.\i out\i0 .println();\line                    \}\line                    System.\i out\i0 .println();\line\line                \}\line\cf2                \cf1 catch \cf0 (ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException o) \{\line\line                \}\line\cf2                \cf1 break;\line\line                 case \cf0 2: //we are buying the ticket. we choose row and seat numbers\cf5\line\line                     \cf1 boolean \cf0 tmp = \cf1 true;\line\line                     do \cf0\{\cf2       \cf5 //loop until we bay of ticket\line                     \cf1 try \cf0\{\cf2        \cf5 //catch situation when we choose non existing seats\cf0\line\line                             c = Cinema.\i enterRow\i0 ();\line                             d = Cinema.\i enterSeat\i0 ();\line\cf1\line\line                      if \cf0 (map[c - 1][d - 1] == "B") \cf2\{ \cf5 //ticket maybe already purchased\line                        \f1\lang1033  \f0\lang9  \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println();\cf1\line                      \f1\lang1033       \f0\lang9  \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println("That ticket has already been purchased!");\cf1\line                                 \cf5 //System.out.println();\cf0\line                             \} \cf1 else \cf0\{\line\cf2             \f1\lang1033                             \f0\lang9          \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println();\line                    \f1\lang1033\tab   \tab      \f0\lang9 System.\i out\i0 .println("Ticket price: $" + Cinema.\i buyTicket\i0 (a, b, c, d));\line                                 System.\i out\i0 .println();\line                                 count = count + 1;\line                                 income = income + Cinema.\i buyTicket\i0 (a, b, c, d);\line                                 tmp = false;\line                             \}\line\line                     \} \cf5 //try\line                     \cf1 catch \cf0 (ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException l) \{\line                         System.\i out\i0 .println();\cf1\line                         \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println("Wrong input!");\line\line                     \}\line                     \} \cf1 while \cf0 (tmp);\cf5 //while\line\line\f1\lang1033\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf0\f0\lang9 for\cf1  \cf0 (int i = 0; i < a; i++) \fs18\{\cf5 //we are checking if seat already used. "B" is used, "S" - is free.\line\fs20                         //System.out.print(i + 1);\line                         \cf0 for (int j = 0; j < b; j++) \{\line                             if (i == c - 1 && j == d - 1) \{\line                                 map[i][j] = "B";\line                             \} else \{\line                                 if (map[i][j] != "B") \{\line                                     map[i][j] = "S";\line                                 \} else map[i][j] = "B";\line                             \}\line\line                         \}\line\line                     \}\line\cf2\line                     \cf1 break;\line                 case \cf0 3: \cf5 //Statistics\line                     \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println();\line                     System.\i out\i0 .println("Number of purchased tickets: " + count);\line\cf1\line                     \cf0 percentage = (count/(double)(a*b)) * 100;\line                     String formattedDouble = new DecimalFormat("#0.00").format(percentage);\line                     System.\i out\i0 .println("Percentage: " + formattedDouble + "%");\line\line                     System.\i out\i0 .println("Current income: $" + income);\line                     if ((a*b) < 60) \{\line                         System.\i out\i0 .println("Total income: $" + ((a*b)*10));\line                     \}\line                     else \{\line                         System.\i out\i0 .println("Total income: $" + ((((a/2)*b)*10) + (((a - a/2)*b)*8)));\line                     \}\line                     System.\i out\i0 .println();\line\cf1\line\line\line                 case \cf0 0:\line\cf2                     \cf1 break;\line\line\line             \cf2\}\line         \} \cf1 while \cf0 (test);\line\cf1\line     \cf2\}\line\line     \cf0 public static void printMenu() \{\line         System.\i out\i0 .println("1. Show the seats");\line         System.\i out\i0 .println("2. Buy a ticket");\line         System.\i out\i0 .println("3. Statistics");\line         System.\i out\i0 .println("0. Exit");\line     \}\line\cf2\line     \cf0 public static void showSeats(int a, int b) \{\line\cf2\line         \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println("Cinema:");\line         System.\i out\i0 .print(" ");\line\line         for (int i = 1; i <= b; i++) \{\line             System.\i out\i0 .print(" " + i);\line         \}\line         System.\i out\i0 .println();\line\line         for (int i = 1; i <= a; i++) \{\line             System.\i out\i0 .print(i);\line             for (int j = 1; j <= b; j++) \{\line                 System.\i out\i0 .print(" S");\line             \}\line             System.\i out\i0 .println();\line         \}\line\line     \}\line\line     public static void showNewSeats (int a, int b, int c, int d) \{\line\cf2\line         \cf0 System.\i out\i0 .println("Cinema:");\line         System.\i out\i0 .print(" ");\line\line         for (int i = 1; i <= b; i++) \{\line             System.\i out\i0 .print(" " + i);\line         \}\line         System.\i out\i0 .println();\line\line         for (int i = 1; i<=a; i++) \{\line             System.\i out\i0 .print(i);\line             for (int j = 1; j<=b; j++) \{\line                 if (i == c && j == d) \{\line                     System.\i out\i0 .print(" B");\line                 \} else\line                     System.\i out\i0 .print(" S");\line             \}\line             System.\i out\i0 .println();\line         \}\line     \}\line\cf2\line\line         \cf0 public static int buyTicket (int a, int b, int c, int d)\{\line             int half1 = a / 2;\line             int half2 = a - half1;\line             int ticket = 0;\line             int income = 0;\line             int c_array[] = new int[a*b];\line             int d_array[] = new int[a*b];\line             String mapTest[][] = new String[a][b];\line             String temp;\line\line             if ((a * b) < 60) \{\line                 //System.out.println("Ticket price: $10");\line                 ticket = 10;\line                 //income = income + 10;\line             \} else if (c <= half1) \{\line                 //System.out.println("Ticket price: $10");\line                 //income = income + 10;\line                 ticket = 10;\line             \} else if (c > half1) \{\line                 //System.out.println("Ticket price: $8");\line                 //income = income + 8;\line                 ticket = 8;\line             \}\line\line             return (ticket);\line\line         \}\line\cf2\line\line         \cf0 public static int enterRow() \{\line             Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.\i in\i0 );\line             System.\i out\i0 .println();\line             System.\i out\i0 .println("Enter a row number:");\line             int c = scanner.nextInt();\line             return c;\line\line         \}\line         public static int enterSeat() \{\line             Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.\i in\i0 );\line             System.\i out\i0 .println("Enter a seat number in that row:");\line             int d = scanner.nextInt();\line             return d;\line         \}\line\line     \}\line\cf2\line\line\line\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\par
}
 